So with the General Election less than a month away, it’s a great place to set out my approach: on how a Labour Government I lead will keep Britain safe, reshape relationships with partners around the world, work to strengthen the United Nations and respond to the global challenges we face in the 21st century.

And I should say a warm welcome to the UN Special Representative in Somalia,  Michael Keating, who is here today. On Monday, we commemorated VE Day, the anniversary of the victory over Nazi Germany in Europe.

VE Day marked the defeat of fascism and the beginning of the end of a global war that claimed seventy million lives. General Eisenhower, supreme commander of the Allied forces in 1944, went on to become Republican President of the United States during some of the most dangerous years of the Cold War in the 1950s.

In his final televised address to the American people as President, Eisenhower gave a stark warning of what he described as “the acquisition of unwarranted influence by the military-industrial complex.” “Only an alert and knowledgeable citizenry”, he said, “can compel the proper meshing of the huge industrial and military machinery of defence with our peaceful methods and goals, so that security and liberty may prosper together.”

Sadly, in the more than half a century since that speech, I think it’s clear that Eisenhower’s warning has not been heeded. Too much of our debate about defence and security is one dimensional. You are either for or against what is presented as “strong defence”, regardless of the actual record of what that has meant in practice.

Alert citizens or political leaders who advocate other routes to security are dismissed or treated as unreliable. My own political views were shaped by the horrors of war and the threat of a nuclear holocaust. My parents met while organising solidarity with the elected government of Spain against Franco’s fascists during the Spanish civil war.

My generation grew up under the shadow of the cold war. On television, through the 1960s and into the seventies, the news was dominated by Vietnam. I was haunted by images of civilians fleeing chemical weapons used by the United States.

I didn’t imagine then that nearly fifty years later we would see chemical weapons still being used against innocent civilians. What an abject failure. How is it that history keeps repeating itself? At the end of the cold war, when the Berlin Wall came down we were told it was the end of history. Global leaders promised a more peaceful, stable world. It didn’t work out like that.

Today the world is more unstable than even at the height of the cold war. The approach to international security we have been using since the 1990s has simply not worked. Regime change wars in Afghanistan Iraq, Libya, and Syria – and Western interventions in Afghanistan, Somalia and Yemen – have failed in their own terms, and made the world a more dangerous place.

This is the fourth General Election in a row to be held while Britain is at war and our armed forces are in action in the Middle East and beyond. The fact is that the ‘war on terror’ which has driven these interventions has failed.

They have not increased our security at home – just the opposite. And they have caused destabilisation and devastation abroad.

Last September, the Commons Foreign Affairs Select Committee published a report on David Cameron’s Libyan war. They concluded the intervention led to political and economic collapse, humanitarian and migrant crises and fuelled the rise of Isis in Africa and across the Middle East. Is that really the way to deliver security to the British people? Who seriously believes that’s what real strength looks like?

We need to step back and have some fresh thinking. The world faces huge problems. As well as the legacy of regime change wars, there is a dangerous cocktail of ethnic conflicts, of food insecurity, water scarcity, the emerging effects of climate change. Add to that mix a grotesque and growing level of inequality in which just eight billionaires own the same wealth as the 3.6 billion poorest people.

And you end up with a refugee crisis of epic proportions affecting every continent in the world. With more displaced people in the world than since the Second World War. These problems are getting worse and fuelling threats and instability. The global situation is becoming more dangerous.

And the new US President seems determined to add to the dangers by recklessly escalating the confrontation with North Korea, unilaterally launching missile strikes on Syria, opposing President Obama’s nuclear arms deal with Iran and backing a new nuclear arms race.

A Labour Government will want a strong and friendly relationship with the United States. But we will not be afraid to speak our mind. The US is the strongest military power on the planet by a very long way. It has a special responsibility to use its power with care and to support international efforts to resolve conflicts collectively and peacefully.

Waiting to see which way the wind blows in Washington isn’t strong leadership. And pandering to an erratic Trump administration will not deliver stability. When Theresa May addressed a Republican Party conference in Philadelphia in January she spoke in alarmist terms about the rise of China and India and of the danger of the West being eclipsed.

She said America and Britain had to ‘stand strong’ together and use their military might to protect their interests. This is the sort of language that led to calamity in Iraq and Libya and all the other disastrous wars that stole the post-Cold War promise of a new world order.

I do not see India and China in those terms. Nor do I think the vast majority of Americans or British people want the boots of their young men and women on the ground in Syria fighting a war that would escalate the suffering and slaughter even further. Britain deserves better than simply outsourcing our country’s security and prosperity to the whims of the Trump White House. So no more hand holding with Donald Trump.

A Labour Government will conduct a robust and independent foreign policy – made in Britain. A Labour Government would seek to work for peace and security with all the other permanent members of the United Nations security council – the US, China, Russia and France. And with other countries with a major role to play such as India, South Africa, Brazil and Germany. The ‘bomb first, talk later’ approach to security has failed. To persist with it, as the Conservative Government has made clear it is determined to do, is a recipe for increasing, not reducing, threats and insecurity.

I am often asked if as prime minister I would order the use of nuclear weapons. It’s an extraordinary question when you think about it – would you order the indiscriminate killing of millions of people? Would you risk such extensive contamination of the planet that no life could exist across large parts of the world? If circumstances arose where that was a real option, it would represent complete and cataclysmic failure. It would mean world leaders had already triggered a spiral of catastrophe for humankind.

Labour is committed actively to pursue disarmament under the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty and we are committed to no first use of nuclear weapons. But let me make this absolutely clear. If elected prime minister, I will do everything necessary to protect the safety and security of our people and our country. That would be my first duty.

And to achieve it, I know I will have to work with other countries to solve problems, defuse tensions and build collective security. The best defence for Britain is a government actively engaged in seeking peaceful solutions to the world’s problems. But I am not a pacifist.

I accept that military action, under international law and as a genuine last resort, is in some circumstances necessary. But that is very far from the kind of unilateral wars and interventions that have almost become routine in recent times. I will not take lectures on security or humanitarian action from a Conservative Party that stood by in the 1980s – refusing even to impose sanctions – while children on the streets of Soweto were being shot dead in the streets, or which has backed every move to put our armed forces in harm’s way regardless of the impact on our people’s security.

Once again, in this election, it’s become clear that a vote for Theresa May could be a vote to escalate the war in Syria, risking military confrontation with Russia, adding to the suffering of the Syrian people and increasing global insecurity. When you see children suffering in war, it is only natural to want to do something. But the last thing we need is more of the same failed recipe that has served us so badly and the people of the region so calamitously.

Labour will stand up for the people of Syria. We will press for war crimes to be properly investigated. And we will work tirelessly to make the Geneva talks work. Every action that is taken over Syria must be judged by whether it helps to bring an end to the tragedy of the Syrian war or does the opposite.

Even if ISIS is defeated militarily, the conflict will not end until there is a negotiated settlement involving all the main parties, including the regional and international powers and an inclusive government in Iraq. All wars and conflicts eventually are brought to an end by political means.

So Labour would adopt a new approach. We will not step back from our responsibilities. But our focus will be on strengthening international co-operation and supporting the efforts of the United Nations to resolve conflicts.

A Labour Government will respect international law and oppose lawlessness and unilateralism in international relations. We believe human rights and social justice should drive our foreign policy. In 1968, Harold Wilson’s Labour Government signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.

As prime minister, I hope to build on that achievement. Labour’s support for the renewal of the Trident submarine system does not preclude working for meaningful, multilateral steps to achieve reductions in nuclear arsenals.  A Labour Government will pursue a triple commitment to the interlocking foreign policy instruments of: defence, development and diplomacy. For all their bluster, the Tory record on defence and security has been one of incompetence and failure.

They have balanced the books on the backs of servicemen and women. Deep cuts have seen the Army reduced to its smallest size since the Napoleonic wars. From stagnant pay and worsening conditions, to poor housing. The morale of our service personnel and veterans is at rock bottom.

And as the security threats and challenges we face are not bound by geographic borders it is vital that as Britain leaves the EU, we maintain a close relationship with our European partners alongside our commitment to NATO and spending at least 2 per cent on defence.

That means working with our allies to ensure peace and security in Europe. We will work to halt the drift to confrontation with Russia and the escalation of military deployments across the continent.

There is no need whatever to weaken our opposition to Russia’s human rights abuses at home or abroad to understand the necessity of winding down tensions on the Russia-Nato border and supporting dialogue to reduce the risk of international conflict. We will back a new conference on security and cooperation in Europe and seek to defuse the crisis in Ukraine through implementation of the Minsk agreements.

We will continue to work with the EU on operational missions to promote and support global and regional security. This means our Armed Forces will have the necessary capabilities to fulfil the full range of obligations ensuring they are versatile and able to participate in rapid stabilisation, disaster relief, UN peacekeeping and conflict resolution activities. Because security is not only about direct military defence, it’s about conflict resolution and prevention, underpinned by strong diplomacy.

So the next Labour Government will invest in the UK’s diplomatic networks and consular services. We will seek to rebuild some of the key capabilities and services that have been lost as a result of Conservative cuts in recent years.

Finally, while Theresa May seeks to build a coalition of risk and insecurity with Donald Trump, a Labour Government will refocus Britain’s influence towards cooperation, peaceful settlements and social justice.  The life chances, security and prosperity of our citizens are dependent on a stable international environment. We will strengthen our commitment to the UN. But we are well aware of its shortcomings, particularly in the light of repeated abuses of the veto power in the UN Security Council.

So we will work with allies and partners from around the world to build support for UN reform in order to make its institutions more effective and responsive. And as a permanent member of the Security Council we will provide a lead by respecting the authority of International Law.

To lead this work, Labour has created a Minister for Peace who will work across the Ministry of Defence and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office. We will reclaim Britain’s leading role in tackling climate change, working hard to preserve the Paris Agreement and deliver on international commitments to reduce carbon emissions.

Labour will re-examine the arms export licensing regulations to ensure that all British arms exports are consistent with our legal and moral obligations. This means refusing to grant export licences for arms when there is a clear risk that they will be used to commit serious violations of international humanitarian law. Weapons supplied to Saudi Arabia, when the evidence of grave breaches of humanitarian law in Yemen is overwhelming, must be halted immediately.

I see it as the next Labour’s Government task, as my task, to make the case for Britain to advance a security and foreign policy with integrity and human rights at its core. So there is a clear choice at this election.

Between continuing with the failed policy of continual and devastating military interventions, that have intensified conflicts and increased the terrorist threat. Or being willing to step back, learn the lessons of the past and find new ways to solve and prevent conflicts. As Dwight Eisenhower said on another occasion: If people “can develop weapons that are so terrifying as to make the thought of global war almost a sentence for suicide, you would think that man’s intelligence would include also his ability to find a peaceful solution.”

And in the words of Martin Luther King “The chain reaction of evil – hate – begetting hate, wars producing more wars – must be broken, or we shall be plunged into the dark days of annihilation”. I believe we can find those solutions. We can walk the hard yards to a better way to live together on this planet.

A Labour Government will give leadership in a new and constructive way and that is the leadership we are ready to provide both at home and abroad. Thank you.It’s taken twenty-seven years but those families have, with great courage and dignity, finally got some truth and justice for the ninety-six who died. And I want to pay tribute to all the families and campaigners, for their solidarity, their commitment and their love.

We must learn from them so we promise those campaigning for Orgreave, for Shrewsbury, for the thousands of workers blacklisted for being trade unionists that we will support your battles for truth and justice and when we return to government we will make sure that you have both.

Because winning justice for all and changing society for the benefit of all is at the heart of what Labour is about.

So yes, our party is about campaigning and it’s about protest too.

But most of all it’s about winning power in local and national government, to deliver the real change our country so desperately needs.

That’s why the central task of the whole Labour party, must be to rebuild trust and support to win the next general election and form the next government. That is the government I am determined to lead, to win power to change Britain for the benefit of working people.

But every one of us in this hall today knows that we will only get there if we work together. And I think it’s fair to say after what we’ve been through these past few months that hasn’t always been exactly the case.

Those months have been a testing time for the whole party, first the horrific murder of Jo Cox, followed by the shock of the referendum result and then the tipping over of divisions in parliament, into the leadership contest that ended last Saturday.

Jo’s killing was a hate-filled attack on democracy itself that shocked the whole country. Jo Cox didn't just believe in loving her neighbor, she believed in loving her neighbour’s neighbor, that every life counted the same.

And as Jo said in her maiden speech as an MP “we have far more in common with each other than things that divide us”. Let that essential truth guide us as we come together again to challenge this Tory Government and its shaky grip on power.

We have also lost good MPs like Michael Meacher and Harry Harpham. They were Labour through and through, passionate campaigners for a better world.

And let me pay particular tribute to those parliamentary colleagues who stepped forward in the summer to fill the gaps in the shadow cabinet and ensure that Labour could function as an effective opposition in parliament.

They didn’t seek office, but they stepped up when their party and in fact the country needed them to serve. They all deserve the respect and gratitude of our party and movement. And this conference should thank them today, they are our future.

We’ve just had our second leadership election within a year. It had its fraught moments of course, not only for Owen Smith and me , and I hope we don’t make a habit of it.

But there have also been upsides. Over 150,000 new members joined our party. Young rising stars have shone on the front bench and we found that the party is more united on policy than we would ever have guessed.

I am honoured to have been re-elected by our party a second time with an even larger mandate. But we all have lessons to learn and a responsibility to do things better and work together more effectively.  I will lead in learning those lessons and I’d like to thank Owen, for the campaign and his work as shadow work and pensions secretary.

And all the Labour Party Staff and my own team for their brilliant work.

One lesson is, that there is a responsibility on all of us to take care with our rhetoric, respect democratic decisions, respect our differences and respect each other. We know that robust debate has at times spilled over into abuse and hate around our party, including misogyny and anti-Semitism, especially on social media.

That is utterly unacceptable. Our party must be a safe and welcoming space for everybody and we will continue to take firm action against abuse and intimidation.

And let me be absolutely clear, anti-Semitism is an evil, it led to the worst crimes of the 20th century, every one of us has a responsibility to ensure that it is never allowed to fester in our society again. This party always has and always will fight against prejudice and hatred of Jewish people with every breath in its body.

We meet this year as the largest political party in western Europe with over half a million members campaigning in every community in Britain.

More people have joined our party in the last twenty months than in the previous twenty years. We have more of our fellow citizens in our party than all the others put together.

Some may see that as a threat. But I see it as a vast democratic resource. Our hugely increased membership is part of a movement that can take Labour’s message into every community, to win support for the election of a Labour government. Each and every one of these new members is welcome in our party.

And after a ten year absence, we welcome back the Fire Brigades Union to our party and to conference. We are reuniting the Labour family.

And over the past year, we’ve shown what Labour can do when the party stands together.

At conference a year ago, I launched our campaign against cuts to tax credits and we succeeded in knocking this government back. 

This year, three million families are over £1,000 better off because Labour stood together.

In the Budget, the government tried to take away billions from disabled people but we defeated them …

We have won all four by-elections we’ve contested. In the May elections, we overtook the Tories to become the largest party nationally. We won back London with a massive win for Sadiq Khan the first Muslim mayor of a western capital city. 

And we won the Bristol mayor for the first time, Marvin Rees, the first black mayor in any European city. And of course we also won the mayoralty in Salford and here in Liverpool.

That’s the road of advance we have to return to if we’re going to challenge the Tories for power and turn the huge growth in the Labour party into the electoral support we need across Britain.

There’s no doubt my election as Labour leader a year ago. And re-election this month grew out of a thirst for a new kind of politics, and a conviction that the old way of running the economy and the country, isn’t delivering for more and more people.

It’s not about me of course, or unique to Britain but across Europe, North America and elsewhere, people are fed up with a so-called free market system, that has produced grotesque inequality stagnating living standards for the many calamitous foreign wars without end and a political stitch-up which leaves the vast majority of people shut out of power.

Since the crash of 2008, the demand for an alternative and an end to counter-productive austerity has led to the rise of new movements and parties in one country after another.

In Britain it’s happened in the heart of traditional politics, in the Labour party which is something we should be extremely proud of. It’s exactly what Labour was founded for to be the voice of the many of social justice and progressive change from the bottom up.

But it also means it’s no good harking back to the tired old economic and political fixes of twenty years ago because they won’t work anymore. The old model is broken. We’re in a new era that demands a politics and economics that meets the needs of our own time.

Even Theresa May gets it, that people want change. That’s why she stood on the steps of Downing Street and talked about the inequalities and burning injustices in today’s Britain.

She promised a country: “that works not for a privileged few but for every one of us”.

But even if she manages to talk the talk, she can’t walk the walk.

This isn’t a new government, it’s David Cameron’s government repackaged with progressive slogans but with a new harsh rightwing edge, taking the country backwards and dithering before the historic challenges of Brexit.

Who seriously believes that the Tories could ever stand up to the privileged few? They are the party of the privileged few, funded by the privileged few, for the benefit of the privileged few.

This is a party, after all that now wants to force through an undemocratic Boundary Review based on an out-of-date version of the electoral register with nearly two million voters missing.

They’ve dressed up as a bid to cut the cost of politics by abolishing fifty MPs, but the £12million savings are dwarfed by the expense of the 260 peers David Cameron appointed at a cost of £34million a year. It’s nothing but a cynical attempt to gerrymander the next election.

And this is a prime minister who was elevated to her job without a single vote being cast after a pantomime farce which saw one leading Tory after another falling on their swords.

When I meet Theresa May across the dispatch box, I know that only one of us has been elected to the office they hold, by the votes of a third of a million people.

In any case, the Tories are simply incapable of responding to the breakdown of the old economic model. Because that failed model is in their political DNA.

It’s what they deliver every time they’re in government. Tory governments deregulate, they outsource and privatise they stand by as inequality grows.

They’ve cut taxes for the privileged few sold off our national assets to them, always on the cheap and turned a blind eye to their chronic tax avoidance.

They’re so committed to the interests of the very richest they recruited Sir Phillip Green into government as something called an efficiency tsar.

Well, government might be a bit more efficient if the super-rich like Sir Phillip actually paid their taxes.

When government steps back there are consequences for every one of us.

Look what’s happened to housing under the Tories:

housebuilding has fallen to its lowest level since the 1920s;
home ownership is falling as more people are priced out of the market;
evictions and homelessness go up every year;
council homes are sold off without being replaced.
And another consequence is that we’re paying over £9 billion a year to private landlords in housing benefit.

Instead of spending public money on building council housing, we’re subsidising private landlords. That’s wasteful, inefficient, and poor government. 

So Labour will, as Teresa Pearce said, build over a million new homes at least half of them council houses and we will control private rents, so we can give every British family that basic human right - a decent home.

It’s the same in the jobs market. Without proper employment regulation, there’s been an explosion of temporary, insecure jobs nearly one million people on zero hour contracts.

There are now six million working people earning less than the living wage and poverty among those in work is at record levels.

That didn’t happen by accident, the Tories have torn up employment rights and deliberately tried to weaken the organisations that get people justice at work the trade unions.

Of course trade unions are not taking this lying down. Look at the great campaign Unite has waged at Sports Direct, to get justice for exploited workers and hold Mike Ashley to account. That is why Labour will repeal the Trade Union Act and set unions free to do their job.

And we will raise the minimum wage to a real living wage that brings working people out of poverty and we’ll ban zero hours contracts as John McDonnell and Ian Lavery have set out at this conference.

And then there’s the scandal of the privatised railways more public subsidy than under the days of British Rail all going to private firms and more delays more cancellations. And the highest fares in Europe. 

That is why the great majority of the British people back Labour’s plan, set out by Andy MacDonald, to take the railways back into public ownership.

But if you want the most spectacular example of what happens, when government steps back, the global banking crash is an object lesson a deregulated industry of out of control greed and speculation that crashed economies across the globe and required the biggest ever government intervention and public bailout in history.

Millions of ordinary families paid the price for that failure. I pledge that Labour will never let a few reckless bankers wreck our economy again.

So Labour is offering solutions. During this summer’s leadership campaign, I set out ten pledges which I believe can be the platform for our party’s programme at the next election.

They have now been put to you and endorsed by this conference.

They lay out the scope of the change we need to see for full employment, a homes guarantee, security at work, a strong public NHS and social care, a National Education Service for all, action on climate change, public ownership and control of our services, a cut in inequality of income and wealth action to secure an equal society and peace and justice at the heart of foreign policy.

Don’t worry, they’re not the Ten Commandments. They will now go to the National Policy Forum and the whole party needs to build on them, refine them and above all take them out to the people of this country.

But those ten pledges the core of the platform on which I was re-elected leader will now form the framework for what Labour will campaign for and for what a Labour government will do.

Together they show the direction of change we are determined to take - and the outline of a programme to rebuild and transform Britain.

They are rooted in traditional Labour values and objectives shaped to meet the challenges of the 21st century. They are values Labour is united on. They reflect the views and aspirations of the majority of our people. And they are values our country can and will support as soon as they are given the chance.

And these pledges are not just words. Already, across the country, Labour councils are putting Labour values into action, in a way that makes a real difference to millions of people, despite cynical government funding cuts that have hit Labour councils five times as hard as Tory-run areas.

Like Nottingham City Council setting up the not-for-profit Robin Hood Energy company to provide affordable energy;

Or Cardiff Bus Company taking 100,000 passengers every day, publicly owned with a passenger panel to hold its directors to account;

Or Preston Council working to favour local procurement, and keep money in the town;

Or Newcastle Council providing free wi-fi in 69 public buildings across the city;

Or Croydon Council which has set up a company to build 1,000 new homes, as Cllr Alison Butler said: “We can no longer afford to sit back and let the market take its course”.

Or Glasgow that has established high quality and flexible workspaces for start-up, high growth companies in dynamic new sectors.

Or here in Liverpool, set to be at the global forefront of a new wave of technology and home to Sensor City, a £15million business hub that aims to create 300 start-up businesses and 1,000 jobs over the next decade.

It is a proud Labour record each and every Labour councilor deserves our heartfelt thanks for the work they do.

But I want to go further because we want local government to go further and put public enterprise back into the heart of our economy and services to meet the needs of local communities, municipal socialism for the 21st century, as an engine of local growth and development.

So today I’m announcing that Labour will remove the artificial local borrowing cap and allow councils to borrow against their housing stock.

That single measure alone would allow them to build an extra 60,000 council homes a year.

Labour councils increasingly have a policy of in-house as the preferred provider and many councils have brought bin collections, cleaners, and IT services back in-house, insourcing privatized contracts to save money for council tax payers and to ensure good terms and conditions for staff.

I have said that Labour will put security at work and employment and union rights from day one centre stage.

But one in six workers now in Britain are now self-employed. They’re right to value their independence but for too many it comes with insecurity and a woeful lack of rights.

So we will review arrangements for self-employed people including social security that self-employed people pay for in their taxes, yet aren’t fully covered by.

And we will ensure that successful innovators have access to the finance necessary to take their ideas to the next level grow their businesses and generate employment.

So as part of our Workplace 2020 review, we will make sure that and our tax and social security arrangements are fit for the 21st century, consulting with self-employed workers and the Federation of Small Businesses.

If the Tories are the party of cuts and short-termism. Labour is the Party of investing for the future.

With the same level of investment as other major economies, we could be so much more unlock so much skill, ingenuity and wealth.

That’s why we’ll establish a National Investment Bank at the heart of our plan to rebuild and transform Britain.

And we will borrow to invest at historically low interest rates, to generate far greater returns. It would be foolish not to, because that investment is expanding the economy and the income it generates for us all in the process.

Even this government, after years of austerity and savage cuts to investment is starting to change its tune.

I am not content with accepting second-class broadband, not content with creaking railways, not content with seeing the US and Germany investing in cutting edge and green technologies, while Britain lags behind.

Last year, for example the Prime Minister promised a universal service obligation for ten megabyte broadband.

But since then the government has done nothing letting down entrepreneurs, businesses and families, especially in rural areas.

That’s why we’ve set out proposals for a National Investment Bank with £500 billion of investment to bring our broadband, our railways, our housing and our energy infrastructure up to scratch.

A country that doesn’t invest is a country that has given up. That has taken the path of managed decline. A Labour government will never accept second best for Britain.

Our country’s history is based on individual ingenuity and collective endeavor.

We are the country of Ada Lovelace, Alan Turing and Tim Berners-Lee, the land of Isambard Kingdom Brunel and Sarah Guppy of George Stephenson and Eric Laithwaite.

The Tories have turned their back on this proud British tradition. They have put privatisation and cutting spending first.

Britain now spends less on research as a share of national income than France, Germany, the US and China. A Labour Government will bring research and development up to three percent of GDP.

Yesterday, Rebecca Long Bailey set out the terms of our Industrial Strategy Review. We need an economy that works for every part of this country so that no community is left behind.

And today I’m asking everyone, businesses, academics, workers, trade unions and anyone who cares about our future prosperity to have your say in that review.

We are a wealthy country - and not just in terms of money.

We are rich in talent, rich in potential.

That’s why we’ve proposed a comprehensive National Education Service at the heart of our programme for government to deliver high quality education for all throughout our lives.

Education has always been a core Labour value from the time of Ellen Wilkinson and before.

And a National Education Service will be an essential part of the 21st century welfare state.

In a rapidly changing economy people need to re-train or upgrade their skills without falling into debt.

Britain already lags behind other in productivity.

Partly that’s about investing in technology and infrastructure.

And partly it’s about investing in people and their skills.

How can we build and expand the sectors of the future without a skilled workforce?

But this Conservative government has slashed adult education budgets taking away opportunities for people to develop their skills and leaving businesses struggling to find the skilled workforce they need to succeed.

So today I am offering business a new settlement. A new deal for Rebuilding Britain.

Under Labour we will provide the investment to rebuild Britain’s infrastructure.

We will fund that investment because it will lead to a more productive economy providing the basis on which our economy and our businesses can thrive, helping to provide over a million good jobs and opportunities for businesses.

But investment in capital must include investment in human capital, the skilled workers needed to make our economy a success.

So this is the deal Labour will offer to business.

To help pay for a National Education Service, we will ask you pay a little more in tax.

We’ve already started to set out some of this, pledging to raise corporation tax by less than 1.5 percent to give an Education Maintenance Allowance to college students and grants to university students so that every young learner can afford to support themselves as they develop skills and get qualifications.

Business shares in economic success and it must contribute to it too.

And I recognise that good businesses deserve a level playing field.

So I also pledge to good businesses that we will clamp down those that dodge their taxes you should not be undercut by those that don’t play by the rules.

There is nothing more unpatriotic than not paying your taxes it is an act of vandalism, damaging our NHS, damaging older people’s social care, damaging younger people’s education. So a Labour government will make shabby tax avoidance a thing of the past.

Labour’s National Education Service is going to be every bit as vital as our National Health Service has become.

And we recognise that education isn’t simply about preparing for the workplace. It’s also about the exploration of knowledge and unlocking the creativity in every human being.

So all school pupils should have the chance to learn an instrument take part in drama and dance and have regular access to a theatre, gallery or museum in their local area.

That’s why we will introduce an arts pupil premium to every primary school in England and Wales and consult on the design and national roll-out to extend this pupil premium to all secondary schools.

This will be a £160million boost for schools to invest in projects that will support cultural activities for schools over the longer-term.

It could hardly be more different to the Tory approach to education. Their only plan is the return of grammar schools, segregation and second class schooling for the majority and what a great job Angela Rayner is doing in opposing them.

So this Saturday 1 October, I want you to take the message into your community that Labour is standing up for education for all.

Grammar Schools are not the only way, the Tories are bringing division back into our society. They are also using the tried-and-tested tricks of demonising and scapegoating to distract from their failures.

Whether it be single mothers, unemployed people, disabled people or migrants, Tory failure is always someone else’s fault.

And those smears have consequences, from children being bullied in school, to attacks in the street - such as the rise of disability hate crime.

I am so proud of this party. In the last year, we stood up to the government on cuts to disabled people’s benefits and cuts to working families tax credits.

And on Monday, our shadow work & pensions secretary Debbie Abrahams announced we would be scrapping the punitive sanctions regime and the degrading Work Capability Assessment.

As politicians, as political activists, as citizens, we must have zero tolerance towards those who whip up hate and division, stand together against racism, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism and defend those being demonised.

It has been shaming to our multicultural society that assaults on migrants have increased sharply since the referendum campaign a campaign that peddled myths and whipped up division.

It isn’t migrants that drive down wages, it’s exploitative employers and the politicians who deregulate the labour market and rip up trade union rights.

It isn’t migrants who put a strain on our NHS, it only keeps going because of the migrant nurses and doctors who come here filling the gaps left by politicians who have failed to invest in training.

It isn’t migrants that have caused a housing crisis; it’s a Tory government that has failed to build homes.

Immigration can certainly put extra pressure on services and that’s why, under Gordon Brown, Labour setup the Migrant Impact Fund to provide extra funding to communities that have the largest rises in population.

What did the Tories do? They abolished it and then they demonise migrants for putting pressure on services.

A Labour government will not offer false promises on immigration as the Tories have done. We will not sow division by fanning the flames of fear. We will tackle the real issues of immigration instead whatever the eventual outcome of the Brexit negotiations and make the changes that are needed.

We will act decisively to end the undercutting of workers’ pay and conditions through the exploitation of migrant labour and agency working which would reduce the number of migrant workers in the process.

And we will ease the pressure on hard pressed public services - services that are struggling to absorb Tory austerity cuts, in communities absorbing new populations.

Labour will reinstate the migrant impact fund, and give extra support to areas of high migration using the visa levy for its intended purpose. And we will add a citizenship application fee levy to boost the fund.

That is the Labour way to tackle social tension investment and assistance, not racism and division.

This party campaigned hard to remain in the European Union. I spoke at rallies from Cornwall to Aberdeenshire for our Labour campaign to remain and reform.

But although most Labour voters backed us we did not convince millions of natural Labour voters especially in those parts of the country left behind. 

Left behind by years of neglect under-investment and de-industrialisation.

Now we have to face the future together we are not helped by patronising or lecturing those in our communities who voted to leave. We have to hear their concerns about jobs, about public services, about wages, about immigration, about a future for their children. And we have to respect their votes, and the decision of the British people.

Of course that doesn’t mean giving a blank cheque to Theresa May and her three-legged team of fractious Brexiteers as they try to work up a negotiating plan and squabble about whose turn it is to have the Chevening country retreat each weekend. 

We have made it clear that we will resist a Brexit at the expense of workers’ rights and social justice we have set out our red lines on employment, environmental and social protection and on access to the European market.

But we will also be pressing our own Brexit agenda including the freedom to intervene in our own industries without the obligation to liberalise or privatise our public services and building a new relationship with Europe based on cooperation and internationalism.

And as Europe faces the impact of a refugee crisis fuelled by wars across the Middle East we have to face the role that repeated military interventions by British governments have played in that crisis.

The Chilcot report made absolutely clear, the lessons to be learned from the disastrous invasion and occupation of Iraq, just as this month’s Foreign Affair Select Committee report into the war in Libya demonstrated those lessons had still not been learned a decade later.

The consequences of those wars have been the spread of terrorism, sectarianism and violence across an arc of conflict that has displaced millions of people forcing them from their countries.

That is why it was right to apologise on behalf of the party for the Iraq war right to say that we have learned the lessons and right to say that such a catastrophe must never be allowed to happen again.

We need a foreign policy based on peace, justice and human rights and what great news to hear the peace treaty in Colombia after fifty years of war and we need to honour our international treaty obligations on nuclear disarmament and encourage others to do the same.

We are a long way from that humanitarian vision. Britain continues to sell arms to Saudi Arabia, a country that the United Nations says is committing repeated violations of international humanitarian law war crimes in Yemen just as we have seen taking place in Syria.

So today I make it clear that under a Labour government when there are credible reports of human rights abuses or war crimes being committed British arms sales will be suspended, starting with Saudi Arabia.

Last year, the votes we needed to win power went many different ways in all parts of our country while millions of our potential voters stayed at home.

Many didn’t believe we offered the alternative they wanted.

It’s true there’s an electoral mountain to climb.

But if we focus everything on the needs and aspirations of middle and lower income voters, of ordinary families, if we demonstrate we’ve got a viable alternative to the government’s failed economic policies. I’m convinced we can build the electoral support that can beat the Tories.

That means being the voice of women, of young people and pensioners middle and lower income workers, the unemployed and the self-employed, minority communities and those struggling with the impact of migration at work and everyone struggling to get on, and secure a better life for themselves, their families and communities.

Running like a golden thread through Labour’s vision for today as throughout our history is the struggle for equality.

Rampant inequality has become the great scandal of our time, sapping the potential of our society, and tearing at its fabric.

Labour’s goal isn’t just greater equality of wealth and income but also of power.

Our aim could not be more ambitious. We want a new settlement for the 21st century, in politics, business, our communities with the environment, and in our relations with the rest of the world.

Every one of us in the Labour party is motivated by the gap between what our country is and what it could be.

We know that in the sixth largest economy in the world the foodbanks, stunted life chances and growing poverty alongside wealth on an undreamed of scale are a mark of shameful and unnecessary failure.

We know how great this country could be, for all its people, with a new political and economic settlement.

With new forms of democratic public ownership, driven by investment in the technology and industries of the future, with decent jobs, education and housing for all with local services run by and for people not outsourced to faceless corporations.

That’s not backward-looking, it’s the very opposite.

It’s the socialism of the 21st century.

Our job is now to win over the unconvinced to our vision. Only that way can we secure the Labour government we need.

And let’s be frank, no one will be convinced of a vision, promoted by a divided party. We all agree on that.

So I ask each and every one of you, accept the decision of the members end the trench warfare and work together to take on the Tories.

Anything else is a luxury that the millions of people who depend on Labour cannot afford.

We know there will be local elections next May. In Scotland, where we have won three council by-elections this summer, in Wales and in counties across England.

And there'll be metro mayor elections too, including here on Merseyside, where my good friend Steve Rotherham will standing as Labour's candidate, Steve, best of luck, I will miss your comradeship and support.

But we could also face a general election next year.

Whatever the Prime Minister says about snap elections, there is every chance that Theresa May, will cut and run, for an early election.

So I put our party on notice today, Labour is preparing for a general election in 2017, we expect all our members to support our campaign and we will be ready for the challenge whenever it comes.

Let us do it, in the spirit of the great Scots-born Liverpool football manager Bill Shankly who said:

"The socialism I believe in, is everybody working for the same goal and everybody having a share in the rewards. That's how I see football, that's how I see life."

We are not all Bill Shanklys. Each of us comes to our socialism from our own experiences.

Mine was shaped by my mum and dad, a teacher and an engineer. Both committed socialists and peace campaigners, my mum’s inspiration was to encourage girls to believe they could achieve anything in their lives.

And by working as a teacher in Jamaica when I was a young man, that taught me so much about the strength of communities living in adversity, as well as fighting for the low paid as a trade union organiser here in Britain.

As the great American poet Langston Hughes put it: “I see that my own hands can make the world that’s in my mind”.

Everyone here and every one of our hundreds of thousands of members has something to contribute to our cause.

That way we will unite, build on our policies. Take our vision out to a country crying out for change.

We are half a million of us, and there will be more, working together to make our country the place it could be.

Conference, united we can shape the future and build a fairer Britain in a peaceful world.

Thank you. Rohit, thank you so much for the way you introduced me and the way our family and you have contributed so much to our community. That was absolutely brilliant. Thank you very much.

 

I am truly delighted to be invited to make this speech today, because for the past two weeks, as you’ve probably known I’ve had a very easy, relaxing time. Hardly anything of any importance at all has happened to me.

 

You might have noticed in some of our newspapers they’ve taken a bit of an interest in me lately.

 

Some of the things I’ve read are this. According to one headline “Jeremy Corbyn welcomed the prospect of an asteroid ‘wiping out’ humanity.” 

 

Now, asteroids are pretty controversial. It’s not the kind of policy I’d want this party to adopt without a full debate in conference. So can we have the debate later in the week!

 

Another newspaper went even further and printed a ‘mini-novel’ that predicted how life would look if I were Prime Minister. It’s pretty scary I have to tell you.

 

It tells us football’s Premier League would collapse, which makes sense, because it’s quite difficult to see how all our brilliant top 20 teams in the Premiership would cope with playing after an asteroid had wiped out humanity. So that’s a no-no for sure!

 

And then the Daily Express informed readers that – I’m not quite sure how many greats there are here, but I think there are three or four - great-great-great grandfather, who I’d never heard of before was a very unpleasant sort of chap who apparently was involved in running a workhouse. I want to take this opportunity to apologise for not doing the decent thing and going back in time to have a chat with him about his appalling behaviour.

 

But then there’s another journalist who had obviously been hanging around my street a great deal, who quotes: “Neighbours often see him riding a Chairman Mao style bicycle.” Less thorough journalists might just have referred to it as just a ‘bicycle’, but no.

 

So we have to conclude that whenever we see someone on a bicycle from now on, there goes another supporter of Chairman Mao. Thus, the Daily Express has changed history.

 

But seriously Conference it’s a huge honour and a privilege for me to speak to you today as Leader of the Labour Party. 

 

To welcome all our new members. 

 

More than 160,000 have joined the Labour party.

 

And more than 50,000 have joined since the declaration of the leadership and deputy leadership election results. 

 

I’m very proud to say that in my own constituency, our membership as of last night had just gone over 3,000 individual members and 2,000 registered supporters. 5,000 people in my constituency.

 

I want to say first of all thank you to all of the people of my constituency of Islington North and Islington North Labour party for their friendship, support and all the activities we’ve done and all the help and support they’ve given me in the past few weeks. I’m truly grateful to you. Thank you very much indeed to everyone in Islington. 

 

Above I want to welcome all our new members to this party, everyone who’s joined this party in this great endeavour. To change our party, change our country, change our politics and change the way we do things. Above all I want to speak to everyone in Britain about the tasks Labour has now turned to. 

 

Opposing and fighting the Tory government and the huge damage it is doing. 

 

Developing Labour’s alternative. 

 

Renewing our policies so we can reach out across the country and win. 

 

Starting next year. 

 

In Wales.

 

In Scotland.

 

In London.

 

In Bristol. 

 

In local government elections across Britain.

 

I want to repeat the thanks I gave after my election to all the people who have served the Labour Party so well in recent months and years. 

 

To Ed Miliband for the leadership he gave our party, and for the courage and dignity he showed in the face of tawdry media attacks.

 

And also for the contribution I know he will be making in the future.

 

Especially on the vital issues of the environment and climate change. 

 

Thank you Ed. Thank you so much for all you’ve done.

 

And to Harriet Harman not just for her leadership and service, but for her commitment and passion for equality and the rights of women. 

 

The way she has changed attitudes and law through her courage and determination. The Equality Act is one of many testaments to her huge achievements. Thank you, Harriet, for everything you’ve done and everything you continue to do.

 

I also want to say a big thank you to Iain McNicol, our General Secretary, and all our Party staff in London and Newcastle and all over the country for their dedication and hard work during the General Election and leadership election campaigns. 

 

And also to all the staff and volunteers who are doing such a great job here this week in Brighton at this incredible conference we’re holding. Thank you to all of them. They’re part of our movement and part of our conference.

 

Also I want to say a special thank you to the fellow candidates who contested the leadership election for this party.

 

It was an amazing three month experience for all of us.

 

I want to say thank you to Liz Kendall, for her passion, her independence, determination and her great personal friendship to me throughout the campaign. Liz, thank you so much for that and all you contribute to the party.

 

I want to say thank you to Yvette Cooper for the remarkable way in which she’s helped to change public attitudes towards the refugee crisis. 

 

And now for leading a taskforce on how Britain and Europe can do more to respond to this crisis. Yvette, thank you for that.

 

And to Andy Burnham, our new Shadow Home Secretary, for everything he did as Health Secretary to defend our NHS – health service free at the point if use as a human right for all.

 

I want to say thank you to all three for the spirit and friendship with which they contested the election.

 

Thank you Liz.

 

Thank you Yvette.

 

Thank you Andy.

 

I want to thank all those who took part in that election, at hustings and rallies all across the country. Our Party at its best, democratic, inclusive and growing.

 

I’ve got new people to thank as well. 

 

The talented colleagues working with me in the Shadow Cabinet and on Labour’s front bench.

 

An inclusive team from all political wings of our Party.

 

From every part of our country.

 

It gives us the right foundation for the open debate our Party must now have about the future.

 

I am not leader who wants to impose leadership lines all the time. 

 

I don’t believe anyone of us has a monopoly on wisdom and ideas - we all have ideas and a vision of how things can be better. 

 

I want open debate in our party and our movement.

 

I will listen to everyone.

 

I firmly believe leadership is about listening. 

 

We will reach out to our new members and supporters. 

 

Involve people in our debates on policy and then our Party as a whole will decide. 

 

I’ve been given a huge mandate, by 59 per cent of the electorate who supported my campaign. I believe it is a mandate for change. 

 

I want to explain how.

 

First and foremost it’s a vote for change in the way we do politics.

 

In the Labour Party and in the country.

 

Politics that’s kinder, more inclusive.

 

Bottom up, not top down. 

 

In every community and workplace, not just in Westminster.

 

Real debate, not necessarily message discipline all the time.

 

But above all, straight talking. Honest.

 

That’s the politics we’re going to have in the future in this party and in this movement.

 

And it was a vote for political change in our party as well. 

 

Let me be clear under my leadership, and we discussed this yesterday in conference, Labour will be challenging austerity. 

 

It will be unapologetic about reforming our economy to challenge inequality and protect workers better. 

 

And internationally Labour will be a voice for engagement in partnership with those who share our values.

 

Supporting the authority of international law and international institutions, not acting against them.

 

The global environment is in peril.

 

We need to be part of an international movement to cut emissions and pollution.

 

To combat the environmental danger to our planet.

 

These are crucial issues. But I also want to add this.

 

I’ve been standing up for human rights, challenging oppressive regimes for 30 years as a backbench MP.

 

And before that as an individual activist, just like everyone else in this hall.

 

Just because I’ve become the leader of this party, I’m not going to stop standing up on those issues or being that activist.

 

So for my first message to David Cameron, I say to him now a little message from our conference, I hope he’s listening – you never know:

 

Intervene now personally with the Saudi Arabian regime to stop the beheading and crucifixion of Ali Mohammed al-Nimr, who is threatened with the death penalty, for taking part in a demonstration at the age of 17.

 

And while you’re about it, terminate that bid made by our Ministry of Justice’s to provide services for Saudi Arabia - which would be required to carry out the sentence that would be put down on Mohammed Ali al-Nimr.

 

We have to be very clear about what we stand for in human rights.

 

A refusal to stand up is the kind of thing that really damages Britain’s standing in the world.

 

I have huge admiration for human rights defenders all over the world. I’ve met hundreds of these very brave people during my lifetime working on international issues. I want to say a special mention to one group who’ve campaigned for the release of British resident Shaker Aamer from Guantanamo Bay.

 

This was a campaign of ordinary people like you and me, standing on cold draughty streets, for many hours over many years.

 

Together we secured this particular piece of justice.

 

That’s how our human rights were won by ordinary people coming together. Ordinary people doing extraordinary things – that is how our rights and our human rights have been won.

 

The Tories want to repeal the Human Rights Act and some want leave the European convention on Human Rights.

 

Just to show what they’re made of, their new Trade Union Bill which we’re opposing very strongly in the House and the country, is also a fundamental attack on human rights and is in breach of both the ILO and the European Convention on Human Rights.

 

Now I’ve been listening to a lot of advice about how to do this job. 

 

There’s plenty of advice around, believe me.

 

Actually I quite like that.  I welcome that.

 

I like to listen to advice, particularly the advice which is unwelcome. That is often the best advice you get. The people that tell you, “yes, you’re doing great, you’re brilliant, you’re wonderful”. Fine. Thank you, but what have I got wrong? “Oh, I haven’t got time for that.”

 

I want to listen to people.

 

But I do like to do things differently as well. 

 

I’ve been told never to repeat your opponents’ lines in a political debate.

 

But I want to tackle one thing head on.

 

The Tories talk about economic and family security being at risk from us the Labour party, or perhaps even more particularly, from me.

 

I say this to them. How dare these people talk about security for families and people in Britain? 

 

Where’s the security for families shuttled around the private rented sector on six month tenancies - with children endlessly having to change schools? 

 

Where’s the security for those tenants afraid to ask a landlord to fix a dangerous structure in their own homes because they might be evicted because they’ve gone to the local authority to seek the justice they’re entitled to?

 

Where’s the security for the carers struggling to support older family members as Tory local government cuts destroy social care and take away the help they need? 

 

Where’s the security for young people starting out on careers knowing they are locked out of any prospect of ever buying their own home by soaring house prices?

 

Where’s the security for families driven away from their children’s schools, their community and family ties by these welfare cuts? 

 

Where’s the security for the hundreds of thousands taking on self-employment with uncertain income, no sick pay, no Maternity Pay, no paid leave, no pension now facing the loss of the tax credits that keep them and their families afloat? 

 

And there’s no security for the 2.8 million households in Britain forced into debt by stagnating wages and the Tory record of the longest fall in living standards since records began.

 

And that’s the nub of it.

 

Tory economic failure. 

 

An economy that works for the few, not for the many.

 

Manufacturing still in decline. 

 

Look at the Tory failure to intervene to support our steel industry as the Italian government has done. 

 

So, as we did yesterday in conference, we stand with the people on Teesside fighting for their jobs, their industry and their community. The company has said that it will mothball the plant and lay the workers off, therefore it is not too late now, again, to call on the Prime Minister even at this late stage, this 12th hour, to step in and defend those people, like the Italian government has done. Why can’t the British government? What is wrong with them?

 

There’s an investment crisis.

 

Britain at the bottom of the international league on investment. 

 

Just below Madagascar and just above El Salvador.  So we’re doing quite well!

 

Britain’s balance of payment deficit £100 billion last year.

 

Loading our economy and every one of us with unsustainable debt for the future.

 

And the shocks in world markets this summer have shown what a dangerous and fragile state the world economy is in. 

 

And how ill prepared the Tories have left us to face another crisis.

 

It hasn’t been growing exports and a stronger manufacturing sector that have underpinned the feeble economic recovery. 

 

It’s house price inflation, asset inflation, more private debt. 

 

Unbalanced. 

 

Unsustainable. 

 

Dangerous. 

 

The real risk to economic and family security. 

 

To people who have had to stretch to take on mortgages. 

 

To people who have only kept their families afloat through relying on their credit cards, and payday loans. 

 

Fearful of how they will cope with a rise in interest rates.

 

It’s not acceptable.

 

The Tories’ austerity is the out-dated and failed approach of the past.

 

So it’s for us, for Labour to develop our forward-looking alternative. 

 

That’s what John McDonnell started to do in his excellent speech to conference.

 

At the heart of it is investing for the future. 

 

Every mainstream economist will tell you that with interest rates so low now is the time for public investment in our infrastructure. 

 

Investment in council housing, and for affordable homes to rent and to buy.

 

John Healey’s plan for 100,000 new council and housing association homes a year.

 

 

To tackle the housing crisis, drive down the spiralling housing benefit bill and so to make the taxpayer a profit. A profit for the taxpayer because the benefit bill falls when the cost of housing falls. It’s quite simple actually and quite a good idea.

 

Investment in fast broadband to support new high technology jobs. 

 

A National Investment Bank to support investment in infrastructure.

 

To provide finance to small and medium sized firms that our banks continue to starve of the money they need to grow. 

 

A Green New Deal investing in renewable energy and energy conservation to tackle the threat of climate change.

 

The Tories of course are selling off the Green Investment Bank. They are simply not interested in this.

 

This is the only way to a strong economic future for Britain. 

 

That’s sustainable. 

 

That turns round the terrible trade deficit. 

 

That supports high growth firms and businesses. 

 

That provides real economic security for our people.

 

The economy of the future depends on the investment we make today in infrastructure, skills, and schools.

 

I’m delighted that Lucy Powell is our new shadow Education Secretary.

She has already set out how the education of every child and the quality of every school counts.

 

Every school accountable to local government, not bringing back selection.

We have aspirations for all children, not just a few.

 

Now my first public engagement as Labour leader came within an hour of being elected.

 

I was proud to speak at the ‘Refugees Welcome’ rally in London. I wanted to send out a message of the kinder politics we are pursuing and a caring society we want to achieve.

 

I have been inspired by people across our country.

 

Making collections for the refugees in Calais. Donating to charities.

 

The work of Citizens UK to involve whole communities in this effort. 

 

These refugees are the victims of war - many the victims of the brutal conflict in Syria.

 

It is a huge crisis, the worst humanitarian crisis in Europe since the Second World War. And globally it’s the biggest refugee crisis there has ever been.

 

But the scale of the response from the government, Europe and the international community isn’t enough.

 

And whilst the government is providing welcome aid to the region, especially in the Lebanon, we all know much more needs to be done. Because it’s a crisis of human beings just like you and just like me looking for security and looking for safety. Let’s reach out the hand of humanity and friendship to them.

 

Now let me say something about national security.

 

The best way to protect the British people against the threats we face to our safety at home and abroad is to work to resolve conflict.

 

That isn’t easy, but it is unavoidable if we want real security.

 

Our British values are internationalist and universal. 

 

They are not limited by borders.

 

Britain does need strong, modern military and security forces to keep us safe. 

 

And to take a lead in humanitarian and peace keeping missions - working with and strengthening the United Nations.

 

On my first day in Parliament as Labour Leader it was a privilege to meet the soldiers and medics who did such remarkable work in tackling the Ebola crisis in Sierra Leone.

 

There is no contradiction between working for peace across the world and doing what is necessary to keep us safe.

 

Today we face very different threats from the time of the Cold War which ended thirty years ago.

 

That’s why I have asked our Shadow Defence Secretary, Maria Eagle, to lead a debate and review about how we deliver that strong, modern effective protection for the people of Britain.

 

I’ve made my own position on one issue clear. And I believe I have a mandate from my election on it.

 

I don’t believe £100 billion on a new generation of nuclear weapons taking up a quarter of our defence budget is the right way forward.

 

I believe Britain should honour our obligations under the Non Proliferation Treaty and lead in making progress on international nuclear disarmament.

 

But in developing our policy through the review we must make sure we all the jobs and skills of everyone in every aspect of the defence industry are fully protected and fully utilised so that we gain from this, we don’t lose from this. To me, that is very important.

 

And on foreign policy we need to learn the lessons of the recent past.

 

It didn’t help our national security that, at the same time I was protesting outside the Iraqi Embassy about Saddam Hussein’s brutality, Tory ministers were secretly conniving with illegal arms sales to his regime.

 

It didn’t help our national security when we went to war with Iraq in defiance of the United Nations and on a false prospectus.

 

It didn’t help our national security to endure the loss of hundreds of brave British soldiers in that war while making no proper preparation for what to do after the fall of the regime.

 

Nor does it help our national security to give such fawning and uncritical support to regimes like Saudi Arabia and Bahrain - who abuse their own citizens and repress democratic rights. These are issues we have to stand up on and also recognise in some cases they are using British weapons in their assault on Yemen. We have got to be clear on where our objectives are.

 

But there is a recent object lesson in how real leadership can resolve conflicts, prevent war and build real security.

 

It’s the leadership, the clever and difficult diplomacy that has been shown by Barack Obama and others in reaching the historic deal with Iran. A deal that opens the way for new diplomatic efforts to resolve the conflict in Syria.

 

The scale of the destruction and suffering in Syria is truly dreadful.

 

More than a quarter of a million people killed.

 

More than ten million driven from their homes.

 

I yield to no-one in my opposition to the foul and despicable crimes committed by Isil and by the Assad government including barrel bombs being dropped on civilian targets.

 

We all want the atrocities to stop and the Syrian people free to determine their own destiny.

 

But the answer to this complex and tragic conflict can’t simply be found in a few more bombs.

 

I agree with Paddy Ashdown when he says that military strikes against Isil aren’t succeeding, not because we do not have enough high explosives, but because we do not have a diplomatic strategy on Syria.

 

That’s the challenge for leadership now, for us, for David Cameron. 

 

The clever, patient, difficult diplomacy Britain needs to play a leading role in. 

 

That’s why Hilary Benn and I together are calling for a new United Nations Security Council resolution that can underpin a political solution to the crisis.

 

I believe the UN can yet bring about a process that leads to an end to the violence in Syria. Yesterday’s meetings in New York were very important.

 

Social democracy itself was exhausted. 

 

Dead on its feet.

 

Yet something new and invigorating, popular and authentic has exploded.

 

To understand this all of us have to share our ideas and our contributions.

 

Our common project must be to embrace the emergence of a modern left movement and harness it to build a society for the majority.

 

Now some media commentators who’ve spent years complaining about how few people have engaged with political parties have sneered at our huge increase in membership.

 

If they were sports reporters writing about a football team they’d be saying:

 

“They’ve had a terrible summer. They’ve got 160,000 new fans. Season tickets are sold out. The new supporters are young and optimistic. I don’t know how this club can survive a crisis like this.”

 

We celebrate the enthusiasm of so many people, old and young, from all communities. 

 

In every part of the country. 

 

Joining Labour as members and supporters.

 

And we need to change in response to this movement.

 

Our new members want to be active and involved. 

 

Want to have a say in our Labour Party’s policies. 

 

Want to lead local and national campaigns against injustice and the dreadful impact of Tory austerity. 

 

Want to work in their local communities to make people’s lives better.

 

They don’t want to do things the old way.

 

Young people and older people are fizzing with ideas. Let’s give them the space for that fizz to explode into the joy we want of a better society.

 

They want a new politics of engagement and involvement.

 

Many of them are already active in their communities, in voluntary organisations, in local campaigns.

 

And we’ve convinced them now to take a further step and join our Labour Party. 

 

What a tremendous opportunity for our Labour Party to be the hub of every community.

 

The place where people come together to campaign.

 

To debate, to build friendships, to set up new community projects.

 

To explain and talk to their neighbours about politics, about changing Britain for the better.

 

That’s going to mean a lot of change for the way we’ve done our politics in the past.

 

Our new Deputy Leader Tom Watson is well up for that challenge. He’s leading the charge and leading the change of the much greater use of digital media as a key resource.

 

That is the way of communication, it is not just through broadsheet newspapers or tabloids, it’s social media that really is the point of communication of the future. We have got to get that.

 

One firm commitment I make to people who join our Labour Party is that you have a real say, the final say in deciding on the policies of our party. 

 

No-one - not me as Leader, not the Shadow Cabinet, not the Parliamentary Labour Party - is going to impose policy or have a veto.

 

The media commentariat don’t get it.

 

They’ve been keen to report disagreements as splits: agreement and compromise as concessions and capitulation

 

No.

 

This is grown up politics.

 

Where people put forward different views.

 

We debate issues.

 

We take a decision and we go forward together.

 

We look to persuade each other.

 

On occasions we might agree to disagree.

 

But whatever the outcome we stand together, united as Labour, to put forward a better way to the misery on offer from the Conservatives.

 

There’s another important thing about how we are going to do this. 

 

It’s a vital part of our new politics.

 

I want to repeat what I said at the start of the leadership election. 

 

I do not believe in personal abuse of any sort.

 

Treat people with respect. 

 

Treat people as you wish to be treated yourself. 

 

Listen to their views, agree or disagree but have that debate. 

 

There is going to be no rudeness from me. 

 

Maya Angelou said: "You may not control all the events that happen to you, but you can decide not to be reduced by them."

 

I want a kinder politics, a more caring society.

 

Don’t let them reduce you to believing in anything less.

 

So I say to all activists, whether Labour or not, cut out the personal attacks.

 

The cyberbullying.

 

And especially the misogynistic abuse online.

 

And let’s get on with bringing values back into politics.

 

So what are our first big campaigns? 

 

I want to start with a fundamental issue about democratic rights for Britain. 

 

Just before Parliament rose for the summer the Tories sneaked out a plan to strike millions of people off the electoral register this December. 

 

A year earlier than the advice of the independent Electoral Commission. 

 

It means two million or more people could lose their right to vote. 

 

That’s 400,000 people in London. It’s 70,000 people in Glasgow.

 

Thousands in every town and city, village and hamlet all across the country

 

That’s overwhelmingly students, people in insecure accommodation, and short stay private lets. 

 

We know why the Tories are doing it. 

 

They want to gerrymander next year’s Mayoral election in London by denying hundreds of thousands of Londoners their right to vote. 

 

They want to do the same for the Assembly elections in Wales. 

 

And they want to gerrymander electoral boundaries across the country.

 

By ensuring new constituencies are decided on the basis of the missing registers when the Boundary Commission starts its work in April 2016. 

 

Conference we are going to do our best to stop them. 

 

We will highlight this issue in Parliament and outside. 

 

We will work with Labour councils across the country to get people back on the registers. 

 

And from today our Labour Party starts a nationwide campaign for all our members to work in every town and city, in every university as students start the new term, to stop the Tory gerrymander. To get people on the electoral register.

 

It’s hard work - as I know from 10 years as the election agent for a marginal London constituency. 

 

But now we have new resources. 

 

The power of social media. 

 

The power of our huge new membership. 

 

Conference, let’s get to it. Get those people on the register to give us those victories but also to get fairness within our society.

 

And, friends, we need to renew our party in Scotland. I want to pay tribute today to our leader in Scotland, Kezia Dugdale and her team of MSPs in the Scottish Parliament.

 

I know that people in Scotland have been disappointed by the Labour Party.

 

I know you feel we lost our way.

 

I agree with you.

 

Kezia has asked people to take another look at the Labour Party.

 

And that’s what I want people across Scotland to do.

 

Under Kezia and my leadership we will change.

 

We will learn the lessons of the past.

 

And we will again make Labour the great fighting force you expect us to be.

 

We need to be investing in skills, investing in our young people – not cutting student numbers. Giving young people real hope and real opportunity.

 

Conference, it is Labour that is the progressive voice for Scotland.

 

There’s another big campaign we need to lead. 

 

David Cameron’s attack on the living standards of low paid workers and their families through the assault on tax credits. 

 

First, remind people over and over again David Cameron pledged during the election not to cut child tax credits. 

 

On the Question Time Leader’s debate he said he had rejected child tax credit cuts. 

 

It’s a shocking broken promise - and the Tories voted it through in Parliament just two weeks ago. 

 

How can it be right for a single mother working as a part time nurse earning just £18,000 to lose £2,000 to this broken promise? 

 

Some working families losing nearly £3,500 a year to this same broken promise.

 

And how can it be right or fair to break this promise while handing out an inheritance tax cut to 60,000 of the wealthiest families in the country?  See the contrast

 

So we’ll fight this every inch of the way. 

 

And we’ll campaign at the workplace, in every community against this Tory broken promise. 

 

And to expose the absurd lie that the Tories are on the side of working people, that they are giving Britain a pay rise.

 

It was one of the proudest days of my life when cycling home from Parliament at 5 o’clock in the morning having voted for the national minimum wage legislation to go through.

 

So of course it’s good to see a minimum wage.

 

But the phoney rebranding of it as a living wage doesn’t do anyone any good. 

 

And the Institute of Fiscal Studies has shown Cameron’s broken promise mean millions of workers are still left far worse off.

 

They can and must be changed.

 

As I travelled the country during the leadership campaign it was wonderful to see the diversity of all the people in our country.

 

And that is now being reflected in our membership with more black, Asian and ethnic minority members joining our party.

 

Even more inspiring is the unity and unanimity of their values.

 

A belief in coming together to achieve more than we can on our own. 

 

Fair play for all.

 

Solidarity and not walking by on the other side of the street when people are in trouble. 

 

Respect for other people’s point of view. 

 

It is this sense of fair play, these shared majority British values that are the fundamental reason why I love this country and its people. 

 

These values are what I was elected on: a kinder politics and a more caring society.

 

They are Labour values and our country’s values. 

 

We’re going to put these values back into politics.

 

I want to rid Britain of injustice, to make it fairer, more decent, more equal. 

 

And I want all our citizens to benefit from prosperity and success.

 

There is nothing good about cutting support to the children of supermarket workers and cleaners. 

 

There is nothing good about leaving hundreds of thousands unable to feed themselves, driving them to foodbanks that have almost become an institution. 

 

And there is nothing good about a Prime Minister wandering around Europe trying to bargain away the rights that protect our workers. 

 

As our Conference decided yesterday we will oppose that and stand up for the vision of a social Europe, a Europe of unity and solidarity, to defend those rights.

 

I am proud of our history.

 

It is a history of courageous people who defied overwhelming odds to fight for the rights and freedoms we enjoy today.

 

The rights of women to vote.

 

The rights and dignity of working people;

 

Our welfare state. 

 

The NHS - rightly at the centre of Danny Boyle’s great Olympic opening ceremony.

 

The BBC. 

 

Both great institutions. 

 

Both under attack by the Tories. 

 

Both threatened by the idea that profit comes first, not the needs and interests of our people. That’s the difference between us and the Tories.

 

So let me make this commitment. 

 

Our Labour Party will always put people’s interests before profit. 

 

Now I want to say a bit more about policy – and the review that Angela Eagle has announced this week. 

 

Let’s start by recognising the huge amount of agreement we start from, thanks to the work that Angela led in the National Policy Forum. 

 

Then we need to be imaginative and recognise the ways our country is changing. 

 

In my leadership campaign I set out some ideas for how we should support small businesses and the self-employed. 

That’s because one in seven of the labour force now work for themselves. 

 

Some of them have been driven into it as their only response to keep an income coming in, insecure though it is. 

 

But many people like the independence and flexibility self-employment brings to their lives, the sense of being your own boss. 

 

And that’s a good thing.

 

But with that independence comes insecurity and risk especially for those on the lowest and most volatile incomes. 

 

There’s no Statutory Sick Pay if they have an accident at work. 

 

There’s no Statutory Maternity Pay for women when they become pregnant 

 

They have to spend time chasing bigger firms to pay their invoices on time, so they don’t slip further into debt. 

 

They earn less than other workers. 

 

On average just £11,000 a year. 

 

And their incomes have been hit hardest by five years of Tory economic failure.

 

So what are the Tories doing to help the self-employed, the entrepreneurs they claim to represent? 

 

They’re clobbering them with the tax credit cuts. 

 

And they are going to clobber them again harder as they bring in Universal Credit. 

 

So I want our policy review to tackle this in a really serious way. And be reflective of what modern Britain is actually like.

 

Labour created the welfare state as an expression of a caring society – but all too often that safety net has holes in it, people fall through it, and it is not there for the self-employed.  It must be. That is the function of a universal welfare state.

 

Consider opening up Statutory Maternity and Paternity Pay to the self-employed so all new born children can get the same level of care from their parents.

 

I’ve asked Angela Eagle, our Shadow Business Secretary, and Owen Smith, our Shadow Work and Pensions Secretary, to look at all the ways we can we support self-employed people and help them to grow their businesses.

 

And I want to thank Lillian Greenwood, our Shadow Transport Secretary for the speed and skill with which she has moved policy on the future of our railways forward. 

 

It was wonderful to see Conference this morning agree our new plan to bring private franchises into public ownership as they expire.

 

Labour’s policy now is to deliver the fully integrated, publicly owned railway the British people want and need. That’s the Labour policy, that’s the one we’ll deliver on.

 

Housing policy too is a top priority. 

 

Perhaps nowhere else has Tory failure been so complete and so damaging to our people.

 

In the last parliament at least half a million fewer homes built than needed.

 

Private rents out of control.

 

A third of private rented homes not meeting basic standards of health and safety.

 

The chance of owning a home a distant dream for the vast majority of young people. 

 

There’s no answer to this crisis that doesn’t start with a new council house-building programme. 

 

With new homes that are affordable to rent and to buy. 

 

As John Healey, our Shadow Housing Minister, has shown it can pay for itself and make the taxpayer a profit by cutting the housing benefit bill by having reasonable rents, not exorbitant rents

 

And we need new ideas to tackle land hoarding and land speculation. 

 

These are issues that are so vital to how things go forward in this country.

 

I want a kinder, more caring politics that does not tolerate more homelessness, more upheaval for families in temporary accommodation.

 

A secure home is currently out of reach for millions.

 

And John Healey has already made a great start on a fundamental review of our housing policies to achieve that.

 

And we are going to make mental health a real priority.

 

It’s an issue for all of us.

 

Every one of us can have a mental health problem. 

 

So let’s end the stigma.

 

End the discrimination.

 

And with Luciana Berger, our Shadow Minister for Mental Health, I’m going to challenge the Tories to make parity of esteem for mental health a reality not a slogan.

 

With increased funding – especially for services for children and young people. 

 

As three quarters of chronic mental health problems start before the age of 18.

 

Yet only a quarter of those young people get the help they need.

 

All our work on policy will be underpinned by Labour’s values. 

 

End the stigma, end the discrimination, treat people with mental health conditions as you would wish to be treated yourself. That’s our pledge.

 

Let’s put them back into politics. 

 

Let’s build that kinder, more caring world.

 

Since the dawn of history in virtually every human society there are some people who are given a great deal and many more people who are given little or nothing. 

 

Some people have property and power, class and capital, status and clout which are denied to the many. 

 

And time and time again, the people who receive a great deal tell the many to be grateful to be given anything at all.

 

They say that the world cannot be changed and the many must accept the terms on which they are allowed to live in it.

 

These days this attitude is justified by economic theory. 

 

The many with little or nothing are told they live in a global economy whose terms cannot be changed. 

 

They must accept the place assigned to them by competitive markets.

 

By the way, isn’t it curious that globalisation always means low wages for poor people, but is used to justify massive payments to top chief executives.

 

Our Labour Party came into being to fight that attitude. 

 

That is still what our Labour Party is all about. Labour is the voice that says to the many, at home and abroad: “you don’t have to take what you’re given.”

 

Labour says:

 

“You may be born poor but you don’t have to stay poor. You don’t have to live without power and without hope.

 

“You don’t have to set limits on your talent and your ambition - or those of your children.

 

"You don’t have to accept prejudice and discrimination, or sickness or poverty, or destruction and war.

 

“You don’t have to be grateful to survive in a world made by others. 

 

No, you set the terms for the people in power over you, and you dismiss them when they fail you.”

 

That’s what democracy is about.

 

That has always been our Labour Party’s message. 

 

You don’t have to take what you’re given.

 

It was the great Nigerian writer Ben Okri who perhaps put it best: 

 

“The most authentic thing about us is our capacity to create, to overcome, to endure, to transform, to love”.

 

But they’re at it again. 

 

The people who want you to take what you’re given. 

 

This Tory government. 

 

This government which was made by the few - and paid for by the few.

 

Since becoming leader David Cameron has received £55 million in donations from hedge funds. From people who have a lot and want to keep it all.

 

That is why this pre-paid government came into being. 

 

To protect the few and tell all the rest of us to accept what we’re given. 

 

To deliver the £145 million tax break they have given the hedge funds in return. 

 

They want us to believe there is no alternative to cutting jobs.

 

Slashing public services.

 

Vandalising the NHS.

 

Cutting junior doctor’s pay.

 

Reducing care for the elderly.

 

Destroying the hopes of young people for a college education or putting university graduates into massive debt.

 

Putting half a million more children in poverty.

 

They want the people of Britain to accept all of these things.

 

They expect millions of people to work harder and longer for a lower quality of life on lower wages. Well, they’re not having it.

 

Our Labour Party says no. 

The British people never have to take what they are given. 

 

And certainly not when it comes from Cameron and Osborne.

 

So Conference, I come almost to the end of my first conference speech, and I think you for listening OK, alright, don’t worry. Listen, I’ve spoken at 37 meetings since Saturday afternoon, is that not enough? Well talk later.

 

So I end conference with a quote.

 

The last bearded man to lead the Labour Party was a wonderful great Scotsman, Keir Hardie who died about a century ago this weekend and we commemorated him with a book we launched on Sunday evening. Kier grew up in dreadful poverty and made so much of his life and founded our party.

 

Stood up to be counted on votes for women, stood up for social justice, stood up to develop our political party.

 

We own him and so many more so much. And he was asked once summaries what you are about, summarise what you really mean in your life. And he thought for a moment and he said this:

 

“My work has consisted of trying to stir up a divine discontent with wrong”.

 

Don’t accept injustice, stand up against prejudice.

 

Let us build a kinder politics, a more caring society together.

 

Let us put our values, the people’s values, back into politics.

 

Thank you.