Train yourself to let go of everything you fear to lose. Death is a natural part of life. Rejoice for those around you who transform into the Force. Mourn them do not. Miss them do not. Attachment leads to jealously. The shadow of greed, that is. A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack. That is why you fail. Yes, a Jedi’s strength flows from the Force. But beware of the dark side. Anger, fear, aggression; the dark side of the Force are they. Easily they flow, quick to join you in a fight. If once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will, as it did Obi-Wan’s apprentice. Powerful you have become, the dark side I sense in you. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path as Vader did you will become an agent of evil. Patience you must have my young padawan. Ready are you? What know you of ready? For eight hundred years have I trained Jedi. My own counsel will I keep on who is to be trained. A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. This one a long time have I watched. All his life has he looked away to the future, to the horizon. Never his mind on where he was. Hmm? What he was doing. A Jedi craves not these things. You are reckless. Remember, a Jedi’s strength flows from the Force. But beware. Anger, fear, aggression. The dark side are they. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny. Luke do not underestimate the powers of the Emperor or suffer your father’s fate you will. Luke, when gone am I the last of the Jedi will you be. Luke, the Force runs strong in your family. Pass on what you have learned, Luke. There is another Skywalker. Once you start down the dark path, forever will it dominate your destiny, consume you it will. You must unlearn what you have learned. Through the Force, things you will see. Other places. The future the past. Old friends long gone. Do or do not. There is no try. May the Force be with you. Size matters not. Look at me. Judge me by my size, do you? Hmm? Hmm. And well you should not. For my ally is the Force, and a powerful ally it is. Life creates it, makes it grow. Its energy surrounds us and binds us. Luminous beings are we, not this crude matter. You must feel the Force around you; here, between you, me, the tree, the rock, everywhere, yes. Even between the land and the ship. Wars not make one great. Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future. Found someone you have. Soon will I rest, yes, forever sleep. Earned it I have. Twilight is upon me, soon night must fall. My home this is. When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good, you will not. Much to learn you still have my old padawan. Early must I rise. Leave now you must. Stopped they must be; on this all depends. Only a fully trained Jedi Knight, with the Force as his ally, will conquer Vader and his Emperor. Away with your weapon. For the Jedi it is time to eat as well. Why wish you become Jedi. Much anger in him, like his father. He is too old. Yes, too old to begin the training. Will he finish what he begins. Quicker, easier, more seductive. A Jedi uses the Force for knowledge and defense, never for attack. You will know. When you are calm, at peace. No, no, there is no why. Nothing more will I teach you today. Clear your mind of questions. That place is strong with the dark side of the Force. In you must go. Only what you take with you. Your weapons you will not need them. Use the Force. Use the Force. Use the Force. So certain are you. Always with you it cannot be done. Hear you nothing that I say. Only different in your mind. That is why you fail. You must learn control. Friends you have there. It is the future you see. Difficult to see. Always in motion is the future. Decide you must how to serve them best. If you leave now, help them you could. But you would destroy all for which they have fought and suffered. You must complete the training. You must not go. To Obi-Wan you listen. The cave. Remember your failure at the cave. Stopped they must be. On this depends. Only a fully trained Jedi Knight with the Force as his ally will conquer Vader and his Emperor. If you end your training now, if you choose the quick and easy path, as Vader did, you will become an agent of evil. Strong is Vader. Mind what you have learned. Save you it can. Told you, I did. Reckless is he. Now matters are worse. That face you make. Look I so old to young eyes. Sick have I become. Old and weak. When nine hundred years old you reach, look as good you will not. Strong am I with the Force but not that strong. No more training do you require. Already know you that which you need. Your father he is. Unfortunate that you rushed to face him that incomplete was your training. Not ready for the burden were you. The very Republic is threatened, if involved the Sith are. Hard to see, the dark side is. Discover who this assassin is, we must. With this Naboo queen you must stay, Qui-Gon. Protect her. May the Force be with you. Master Qui-Gon more to say have you? A disturbance you say? Revealed your opinion is. Trained as a Jedi, you request for him. Tested he will be. See through you, we can. Afraid to lose her, I think. Fear is the path to the dark side... fear leads to anger... anger leads to hate.. hate leads to suffering. A Jedi must have the deepest commitment, the most serious mind. I sense much fear in you. Then continue, we will. Correct you were, Qui-Gon. Clouded, this boy's future is. Masked by his youth. Ready so early, are you? What know you of ready? Our own council we will keep on who is ready. More to learn, he has. And draw out the Queen's attacker. Young Skywalker's fate will be decided later. Train him not. Take him with you, but train him not! May the Force be with you. Confer on you, the level of Jedi Knight the Coucil does. But agree on you taking this boy as your Padawan learner, I do not. The Chosen One the boy may be; nevertheless, grave danger I fear in his training. Qui-Gon's defiance I sense in you. Need that, you do not. Agree, the council does. Your apprentice, young Skywalker will be. Always two there are, no more, no less. A master and an apprentice. Worse than war, I fear... Much	worse. Impossible to see ... The Dark Side clouds everything. But this I am sure of. Do their duty the Jedi will. With you the force is strong... young Senator. To see you alive	brings warm feeling to my heart. In dark times nothing is what it appears to be, but the fact remains Senator, in grave danger you are. Too little about yourself you worry, Senator, and too much about politics. Be mindful of your danger, Padme. Accept our help. Masking the future, is this disturbance in the Force. And only those who have turned to the Dark Side can sense the possibilities of the future. Only going through the Dark Side can we see. Out there, they are. A certainty that is. Only if he chooses to follow his destiny.Don't think, feel, be as one with the Force. Help you, it will. Younglings - enough! A visitor we have. Welcome him. What help to you, can I be? An interesting puzzle. Gather round the map reader, younglings. Master Obi-Wan has lost a planet. Find it, we will try... Truly wonderful, the mind of a child is. Much harder to answer, that question is. The Council is confident in this decision, Obi-Wan. Who he is working for... discover that, you must. In form the chancellor of this, we must. With the forename Darth, a Sith he must be. Perhaps too many pieces are missing from this puzzle, there are. Agreed, Master Windu. Two hundred Jedi send. Enough, let's hope they are. More battalions to the left. Encircle them we must, then divide. No interest in contests, do I have. The end for you, Count, this is. Victory, you say? Not victory, a defeat, it was... Master Obi-Wan. Begun, the Clone War has!